Today, I have a coding interview question from Apple, and this question is called Jump Game.
And in this problem, we are given an area of non-negative integers and we need to determine if you're
able to reach the last index.
So let's get right to it to solve this problem.
Given a function called Khanjar, which takes an area of known negative numbers.
And we need to return to prove that we can jump all the way to our last days so far for first and we
can jump all the way to last index and be tried and true there.
So we have to design the algorithm where we will use the algorithm.
So let me explain each value in the amount of spaces that we can jump.
And our goal is to reach the last index in the area.
So from here, let's say this guy wants to join.
So how many steps should you take, you can jump one.
And then he can jump to.
And from here, you can jump again one more.
And from here, you can again just one more and you'll reach the last index in the.
But there's also multiple ways you can do that, so you can just drop one.
And then to hear from you, you can also jump on.
And from here, you can also turn one and you can reach the last index area.
So let's look at another example.
So from here, let's say you were going to jump one.
And then you're going to jump two and then three because the value of your story, so you land on zero
and then there's no way that you can jump to the last index.
So let's try to write.
So that's a tough one, because the maximum you're allowed is three.
So just jump that had on to.
And then from to just jump one more and another one, and that said, I can land on.
Let's try and go to one, so let's just go one.
And then to now, you can jump again one more.
But then again, you land on zero, so there's no way to jump to the last index in the area.
So here we have to return a false but this is too many times for checking each index.
And this is not the optimal solution.
So let me show you another way.
What if we go from the last index to the zero index to the first element?
Since we're already on the last index.
We put the point of the game is to reach the last minute, so if you are already on the last index,
already there, so we want to see if we can go to the first index.
So there there's some math involved.
Let me show you.
So what we're trying to find here, is there a way to get from a left index to our last index?
So that's why we're going to check each each of these indexes and see if they are valid indexes.
So first, we're going to create a variable called index to keep track of them.
So first, all the index is four, because if we were to jump from here all the way to using four jumps
to reach the last index.
So that's why our current index is four.
And our goal is to get our index to zero.
And that's when we're going to say that it's possible to jump all the way to the last and that can return.
True.
So let's start with the left index, which is three.
So three plus the value, which is zero, is that greater than or equal to four?
No, it's not us, not with North Dakota.
So our politics will still stay at for.
OK, now let's go on to this index.
So this is not about index, we want to underline it.
So let's try this one.
So, too, is the index and the value is one.
Is that greater than or equal to four?
Because the index is still at four.
So two plus one equals three if not greater than or equal to four.
So the index will still stay set for.
And then we go on to this and this one plus two, is that greater than or equal to four to one plus
two, which will give us a three, if not greater than or equal to four.
So our about the next stage four.
And then we're on the first index, the zero index and zero plus three, which will go to three.
It's not created then nor equal to four.
So the index will still still stay four.
And we will check in recode if about index, but it's not so good return false.
There is no way to jump.
There's no way to jump to a last index in this area.
So let me show you another example.
OK, so here we don't have a zero.
So it is possible to get to a loss in this let's check statistic zero one, two, three and four.
So overvalued, six.
Will be for.
And then we're going to go this way.
So can we get from this index to our last index, so three plus one, which will give us a force of
three plus one is a greater than or equal to fourth.
Plus minus four, so, yes, it is equal to four, so this is now a ballot index update for a bond index,
which will be three.
So now we move on to to index to two plus one, is that greater than or equal to three because the index
is now three, two, plus one, two, three.
It is equal to three.
So now our index will be to.
OK, and now we move on to one index, so on plus three, which is the value, is that greater than
or equal to the index, which is to.
So three plus one four four is greater than two.
So this is now a valid index.
And now we move on to our last index, so.
Six plus two, is that greater than or equal to about two is greater than one.
So now zero is our ballot index.
And then we're going to check, is the index equal to zero?
If it is equal to zero, then it is possible.
Right, that we can go from here to here to here and then to the index.
So that's when we're going to return a true.
Let me show you one example.
So in this example, we have two zeros.
So let's try this.
So zero one two, which are index and these are the values, so let's go from here.
Or rather index right now it's going to be two because one and two jobs will get us to our last index.
So let's start with this one.
So one.
Plus zero.
Is that greater than or equal to two?
No.
So one is not greater than or equal to two.
So this one is not about this.
So we will not update the next to this one.
Let's go on to this one.
Our last index was zero.
Plus two.
Is that greater than or equal to a valid index?
Yes, so it's equal to about index.
So this is going to be our new politics.
So in this scenario, you will return true, because the index is equal to zero.
Now, let me show you all of this in code.
All right, guys.
So here we have the function called can jump and it takes an area of non-negative integers.
So the first thing we're going to check is we're going to do a double check, so we're going to check
if what we're given is either no or undefined.
If it is, then we're going to return a false because we can't jump.
Right, because we don't have an area.
So then the first thing we want to do is we want to find a valid index.
And as I explained on the whiteboard, the first round index is going to be the last index in the area
to get the index in the area.
We want to take the area minus one, and that will help us get the index in the area.
So let's put that down right here.
So this is our example that the area which we're going to be given and is just an example.
So our index is going to start off with four.
Let me show you why.
So this is index zero, index one, index to index three and index four.
So a index is four.
And then we're going to start looping.
We're going to look through the area backwards.
So we're going to start with.
The second to last index.
Right, because we've already gone through.
The last index, which is over, which is going to be our index, so we're going to start with the second
to last index.
So that's why we have a minus two here.
And we're going to start documenting so we can go we can check the backwards.
So first, we're going to check.
If I which is the index plus the element of the index is greater than or equal to the valid index.
So let me explain up here.
So we are at the second to last index, which is three.
So three plus element, which is one three plus one, which will give us a four, is that greater than
or equal to the index?
That index is a four to three plus one equals four is equal to four.
So that means our new index is going to be an index, which we're currently on, which is three.
So what we're going to do is we're going to update the next element, which we're on, which is three,
so let me do that up here.
And then again, we're going to lose and we're going to decrement, so now we are on index to index
to plus one.
Right here, if index two plus one is greater than or equal to the value index, which is three to two
plus one is three.
So three is equal to the index.
So that means a new index is going to be two.
The one that we're on to the update right here.
OK, and again, we're going to look and we're going to decrement, so now we're on one index one so
one plus three, which equals four, is that greater than or equal to two?
Which is our index, is that greater than or equal to a valid index?
So three plus one equals four and it's greater than our blood index again.
We're going to update our index with this one, which is one.
Again, we're going to loop and we're going to decrement, so now we end up with index zero.
So zero plus the element on which is two zero plus two equals two, is that greater than or equal to
the other index?
Yes, it's greater.
So, again, we're going to update our index now, it's going to equal to zero, so what that means
is all of them are about index and we can jump from zero to one to two to three to four.
That means can we jump?
Yes, we can.
So we're going to a journey.
So how are we going to do that is we're going to check it.
The index is equal to zero.
If it is, then we're going to return it, which is going to return a true.
Let me show you one more example.
So let's say we have a two zero zero, so this is the area which were given.
And our index is going to be zero one and to.
So here, we're going to start off with our last index.
Which is to say that's going to be a index extra.
So, again, we're going to look through it from the second to last index, so one plus zero.
Equals one is greater than or equal to two.
No, it's not.
So one is not about index, so we're not going to update or index is still going to stay at two.
Then we're going to look to it again and decrement and we'll end up with index zero zero plus two.
Which equals to two, is that greater than political 2006?
Yes, it's equal to it.
So we're going to update the world index to zero.
So we've gone through the area, through the area, and now we're going to check, is the index equal
to zero?
Yes, is equal to zero.
So we're going to return a true.
True.
So can jump, yes, we can jump because.
From to we can jump one and two, right from two, we can jump one and two.
So we've reached our last element in the area and that's that's pretty much it.
If you have any questions that leave it in the comments below.
And now we'll get back to you.